[ext-docs] New doc: Fetching favicons in MV3 (#4852)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/mv3/favicon/index.md

---
layout: "layouts/doc-post.njk"
title: "Fetching favicons"
seoTitle: "Fetching with favicons in Chrome extensions"
date: 2023-01-11
# updated: 2023-02-14

> description: How to get a websites' favicon in a Chrome extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: How to get a website's favicon in a Chrome extension.
```

---

## Overview {: #overview }

A [favicon][mdn-favicon] (short for "favorite icon") is a small icon that is displayed in the browser's address bar. Favicons are typically used to identify and differentiate websites.

> This article describes how to retrieve a website’s favicon in a Manifest version 3 extension.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article describes how to retrieve a website’s favicon in a Manifest V3 extension.
```

> ## Accessing a websites' favicon {: #how-to } 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Accessing a website's favicon {: #how-to } 
```

To retrieve the favicon of a website, you need to construct the following URL:

```text
chrome-extension://EXTENSION_ID/_favicon/?pageUrl=EXAMPLE_URL&size=FAV_SIZE
```

`EXTENSION_ID`
: The ID of your extension.

`EXAMPLE_URL`
: The URL of the favicon's website.

`FAV_SIZE`

> : The size of the favicon. For example: 16, 32, or 64.

Reviewer: [FOLLOW UP] It's possible that web sites don't provide all three sizes. It's my understanding that 16 is the most common size. I'm debating whether we need to point this out. Thoughts?

The following steps describe how to construct this URL in a Chrome extension:  

> ### Step 1: Update the manifest {: #manifest }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: update the manifest {: #manifest }
```

Reviewer: I'm a thousand miles from my reference library, so I can't tell you the rule number just now. The Chicago Manual of Style, which is Google corporate standard, says that text following a colon is lower case.

First, you must request the `"favicon"` permission in the [manifest][doc-manifest].

```json/4
{
  "name": "Favicon API in a popup",
  "manifest_version": 3,
  ...
  "permissions": ["favicon"],
  ...
}
```

{% Aside 'caution' %}

> The `"favicon"` permission [triggers a warning][doc-perms-warn] unless other similar permissions are already requested, such as `"tabs"` or host permission. 

Reviewer: [FOLLOW UP] What do you mean by 'other similar permissions'?

{% endAside %}

> In addition, when fetching favicons in [content scripts][doc-cs], the `"_favicon/*"` folder must be declared as a [web accessible resource][doc-war]. For example:

Reviewer: [FOLLOW UP] Favicons are typically at the root of a site, I thought. So is `"_favicon/*"` more a less a command that retrieves the icon? Might be good to explain this.

Author: The way this [API was designed](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ksvSq1zF-9jYSfGOvNluyoTV0Ud9xl6r9HiAKONqmz8/edit?mode=html#) requires this [URL to be constructed](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv3/favicon/#how-to):

`chrome-extension://EXTENSION_ID/_favicon/?pageUrl=EXAMPLE_URL&size=FAV_SIZE`

For a content script to access **any** file that is _**part of the extension**_ (path`chrome-extension://EXTENSION_ID/`), they must be declared as a WAR.

```json/10-16
{
  "name": "Favicon API in content scripts",
  "manifest_version": 3,
  "content_scripts": [
    {
      "matches": ["<all_urls>"],
      "js": ["content.js"]
    }
  ],
  "permissions": ["favicon"],
  "web_accessible_resources": [
    {
      "resources": ["_favicon/*"],
      "matches": ["<all_urls>"],
      "extension_ids": ["*"]
    }
  ]
  ...
}
```

> ### Step 2: Construct the URL {: #url }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: construct the URL {: #url }
```

> The following function uses [`runtime.getURL()`][runtime-geturl] to create a fully-qualified URL pointing to the `"/_favicon/"` folder. Then it returns a new query string with the URL and size of the favicon. Finally, the extension appends the image to the body. 

Reviewer 2: > it returns a new query string

Would it be more accurate to say it returns a string representing the URL with several query parameters?

Author: Good suggestion. Just changed it.

> The following function uses [`runtime.getURL()`][runtime-geturl] to create a fully-qualified URL pointing to the `"/_favicon/"` folder. Then it returns a new query string with the URL and size of the favicon. Finally, the extension appends the image to the body. 

Author: ```suggestion
The following function uses [`runtime.getURL()`][runtime-geturl] to create a fully-qualified URL pointing to the `"/_favicon/"` folder. Then it returns a new string representing the URL with several query parameters. Finally, the extension appends the image to the body. 
```
Sounds good 👍

> The following function uses [`runtime.getURL()`][runtime-geturl] to create a fully-qualified URL pointing to the `"/_favicon/"` folder. Then it returns a new string representing the URL with several query parameters. Finally, the extension appends the image to the body. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following function uses [`runtime.getURL()`][runtime-geturl] to create a fully-qualified URL pointing to the `"_favicon/"` folder. Then it returns a new string representing the URL with several query parameters. Finally, the extension appends the image to the body. 
```

Reviewer: This is pretty uniformly the way we do folders on the site.

```js
function faviconURL(u) {
  const url = new URL(chrome.runtime.getURL("/_favicon/"));
  url.searchParams.set("pageUrl", u);
  url.searchParams.set("size", "32");
  return url.toString();
}

const img = document.createElement('img');
img.src = faviconURL("https://www.google.com") 
document.body.appendChild(img);
```

This example is a `www.google.com` 32px favicon URL that includes a random extension ID:

```text

> chrome-extension://eghkbfdcoeikaepkldh/_favicon/?pageUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com&size=32

Reviewer 2: Extension IDs are always 32 characters, so I don't think this one is possible. Did you want to pick one from loading the demo extension or just make this longer?

Author: ```suggestion
chrome-extension://eghkbfdcoeikaepkldhfgphlaiojonpc/_favicon/?pageUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com&size=32
```
I had shortened it to avoid scrolling so much 😅. But I think you're right; we probably should stick with being accurate 👍 . Changed it!
